1. What data types do each of these values represent?

- text
- integer
- date
- float
- decimal


2. Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.

I would use a text file like a JSON file if I want the data to persist outside of the program and want to store objects with more information. If there will only be a single application accessing the text file, a text file may be appropriate. But if I want multiple applications to be access, search and manipulate the data that persists beyond the application process then a database is appropriate. 

3. Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.

One difference is that SQL is a declarative programming language versus procedural language. It says want it wants to find rather than how to find it. 

In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.

The easiest way for me to think about the database system is that it mirrors a table structure where the columns denote what the data represents and the rows make up a conceptual unit dependent on whatever that database is storing. In each cell is a value that can differ in data type depending on what column it is in.  Then using a language I am able to query that database and get results, update the data or make new structures to store the data. 

Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.

Table: Data structure that contains all the data in columns and rows
Columns: Denotes what each data represents
Rows: complete conceptual unit 
Value: what is stored in each table cell and can be different data types

List three data types that can be used in a table.

text, integer, float

7
a. Provide me the date and amount of all the payments
b. Provide me all the payment amounts greater than $500
c. Provide me all the information where the payee was Mega Foods

8. 
a. 
SELECT email, signup
FROM users
WHERE user = 'DeAndre Data';
b. 
SELECT userid
FROM users
WHERE email = 'alessia.algorithm@uw.edu';
c. 
SELECT *
FROM users
WHERE userid = 4;